---
title: "August 20th"
date: "2018-08-20"
image: "img_0495_low.JPG"
prevPost: "0819"
nextPost: "0824"
---

Today was my first day to Uppsala. I was staying in the Sheraton downtown Stockholm for the weekend and needed to checkout by noon that day. I was on a bit of a schedule because I had to make it to my apartment building while it was still open from 13:00 - 16:00. As my luck had it, the moment I found my train, the doors closed on me like a movie. There was a woman there who was super nice and told me the next train to Uppsala was coming in a half hour. About a $10 mistake for being just 30 seconds late, but no harm no foul.

I went ahead and bought the next train's tickets on my phone which went fine, expect that it never emailed me my ticket, just a credit card confirmation. I downloaded the SJ app for Swedish trains and tried to download my ticket there, but all I could get was the ticket for the last train. Now I worried about not having a ticket and boarding the train, and the idea of presenting the old ticket crossed my mind. They let me on without having to show my ticket, but I knew they would be sending a guy to come check the ticket I didn't have. Keep in mind, everything on the app was totally in Swedish, and I was still attempting to download my ticket on my phone. Sure enough, here comes the ticket checking guy. I was able to explain my situation in English, which he understood, and I showed him my purchase number which was good enough for him, so it all worked out, as most things do. Really there's no reason to worry ever. Even had I been arrested for not paying my ticket, I could've appeared on that TV show "Locked Up Abroad", maybe even received a book deal too.

Uppsala ended up being a great choice as the city is even more beautiful than Stockholm was, and it has tons of people outdoors with their dogs or on their bikes. In fact, it reminded me about a conversation I had with a Swedish professor on my plane rider over. She said there's a running joke that every Swedish student puts "love being outdoors" for the hobbies section on their resumes. The picture I posted for this entry is actually a castle built in 1549, super old. Uppsala University is super old too, founded in 1477 makes it the oldest university in Scandinavia and fourth oldest in all of Europe.

I successfully got into my apartment and got settled in. Only one other person that I can tell is moved in on my hall. Unlike the KTH students I had met over the weekend, most Uppsala students are waiting to arrive for another week because classes don't start for another two.
