---
title: "September 18th"
date: "2018-09-18"
gallery:
  - img_0582_low.JPG
  - img_0592_low.JPG
  - img_0593_low.JPG
  - img_0596_low.JPG
  - img_0597_low.JPG
  - img_0602_low.JPG
  - img_0610_low.JPG
  - img_0611_low.JPG
  - img_0615_low.JPG
  - img_0616_low.JPG
  - img_0621_low.JPG
  - img_0624_low.JPG
  - img_0625_low.JPG
  - img_0628_low.JPG
  - img_0632_low.JPG
  - img_0640_low.JPG
  - img_0641_low.JPG
  - img_0652_low.JPG
  - img_0657_low.JPG
  - img_0658_low.JPG
  - img_0661_low.JPG
  - img_0667_low.JPG
  - img_0673_low.JPG
  - img_0674_low.JPG
  - img_0677_low.JPG
  - img_0678_low.JPG
  - img_0679_low.JPG
  - img_0682_low.JPG
  - img_0693_low.JPG
  - img_0695_low.JPG
  - img_0704_low.JPG
  - img_0706_low.JPG
  - img_0712_low.JPG
  - img_0719_low.JPG
  - img_0727_low.JPG
  - img_0736_low.JPG
prevPost: "0905"
nextPost: "0927"
---

Well it's been a minute since my last blog post. I'm sorry to those who have been checking for new content only to find that there wasn't any. I've added Google analytics to the blog such that I can investigate if people are reading my stuff. 70 something people have been to my page with about 15 regular fans. Cool beans. Well to the 15 who come to check in regularly I appreciate you taking the time to read what I'm writing, because it's so easy to do anything else. All social media sites and any entertainment medium in general is vying for our time; so I appreciate you coming here and for being interested. Although the purpose of this blog isn't to please an audience, I enjoy knowing someone wants to read it.

Okay so, two weekends ago I went with two friends to Italy where we stayed in an Airbnb in Naples. From there we traveled to Rome for a day, and we also spent a day in Pompeii visiting the ruins. Before I left Purdue, they required all study abroad students to attend a before you go seminar, and one of the things I remember most was their talk about the coming "culture shock". While in Sweden I don't think I'll experience a true culture shock, but if I were to stay in Italy for a semester I certainly would experience the supposed shock. Less people speak English in Italy, and drivers have no respect for traffic rules or pedestrians. It certainly didn't feel as clean or as safe as Sweden, but the trip was good nonetheless. Don't let me just tell you all the bad parts only.

Rome was really interesting with lots of beautiful artwork done centuries ago. All day long I looked at impressive pieces of art that I could appreciate, but I could never truly connect to any of it because I didn't know what I was looking at. I also didn't have any connection to the Catholic church, so there wasn't magic in that way either.

In Pompeii, we went to a vineyard under Mount Vesuvius in the red zone. The vineyard had no irrigation surprisingly. This was because the ashy irregular soil trapped pockets of water underground and the grapes always have a supply of water under them. Being only twenty and being unable to drink in the US, I haven't developed a pallet for wine at all. The wine tasting was fine, but just like my art experiences in the Vatican, I couldn't fully appreciate it because I had no reference point.

That's all I have on the trip really. You can look at my images above or look at all my semester images on the [gallery page](/Swedish-Blog/gallery/). School is picking up and so is social life as I'm meeting people. I started participating in an acting and skits club at my Nation. Back home, my company is needing more and more attention all the time and we're looking to hire two more people by the end of the week. With lots of priorities and little time, I have to eliminate almost all passive petty amusements and time killers. Anytime I'm watching a YouTube video, which for anyone who knows me knows I do a lot of, I could just as easily be practicing my Swedish or making app updates. I'm also trying to learn Spanish and am dedicating 90 mins a day to listening comprehension and vocab.

While being somewhat busy, I certainly think the early twenties will be the best times of my life. I'm caught between the worry of looking back saying I didn't work hard enough in my college years with my business, studies, etc. and the feeling that I'll look back and say I worked too hard and didn't have enough fun. I'll figure it out.

Hej da, vi ses!
