---
title: "November 24th"
date: "2018-11-24"
gallery:
  - img_0955.jpg
  - img_0974.jpg
  - img_0880.jpg
  - img_0905.jpg
  - img_0909.jpg
  - img_0918.jpg
  - img_0930.jpg
  - img_0978.jpg
prevPost: "1122"
nextPost: "1201"
---

The Denmark trip was pretty solid. I wish it had been a little sunnier for my photos and a little warmer for my body, but I still had a good time. I was somewhat reluctant to travel by myself, but after having traveled alone successfully I can say it was a pleasant change. I got to wake up when I wanted to, eat when I wanted to, and visit the stuff I wanted to. In addition, it forced me to have to talk to people. Being with a group means you talk to the same people the whole time, but when you're out and about you talk to someone new each place you go, especially at bars and restaurants. If you've read one of my earlier posts you'll know alcohol doesn't affect me too much, but in Denmark I drank "glogg" which is like wine with cinnamon and nutmeg. Coming home that night I noticed in the mirror that my cheeks were warm and red. I'm sure I looked like the quintessential Irishman with my red hair to match.

Copenhagen is one of the most expensive cities in Europe. The land of taxes as I'll describe it because whenever you buy anything there's a 25% vat tax. I thought Chicago's sales tax of 13% was outrageous, even for a large city. All citizens also say goodbye immediately to 40-50% of their income. Of course the country provides free health services and education. Our tour guide on Thursday however explained how great it was the government allowed private health care services in case someone needs surgery right now. I guess he was saying if God forbid it ever came to a life threatening operation, it would behoove you to use the private services. Canada thinks the same way and in the early 2000's their supreme court had to rule it unlawful for Quebec as a province to tell a dying individual they couldn't pay for health care outside of the limited government services that might save their life ([src](https://www.bmj.com/content/330/7505/1408.1.full)).

Copenhagen is the city of bikes, but mostly because the import taxes for purchasing a vehicle make it too expensive for the average Joe to even own a car. America has to have some of the most progressive tax policies. Low sales tax for the poor people whose income is almost entirely spent, without having the luxury to save much. If you make less than $38,700 a year as an individual, you only pay 12% federal income tax ([src](https://www.bankrate.com/finance/taxes/tax-brackets.aspx)). Not to mention the 1% of earners in the United States paying 45.7% of all federal income tax ([src](https://www.bankrate.com/finance/taxes/tax-brackets.aspx)). Yet there seems to be this contempt for rich people. They're imagined as figures resembling Scrooge McDuck who just hoard their money so they can dive into a vault of loot to swim around in. It's the rich people who took a huge financial risk and worked long hours to get to where they are. Ask any entrepreneur and they'll tell you it's about ten failures for every one success. Not to mention, in a capitalist society, not a single person ever got rich by creating a product or service that people didn't want, unless of course they stole the money Oceans 11 style.

Right now, there's a lot of social currency surrounding socialism. It's cool to be socialist. In fact, I'm having reservations about posting this article just in the off chance a future employer might run into my pro-capitalism blog post. Bernie Sanders probably should have won the Democratic nomination had it not been for the corruption of the DNC's process allowing for superdelegates. Superdelegates which account for around 15% of delegates, can decide the democratic nomination regardless of how people voted ([src](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superdelegate)). In essence, even though Bernie was more popular among voters, a small group of people can just throw those votes away and pick their candidate. The irony here is that had the DNC not been so corrupt as to push through the world's worst candidate, the only candidate somehow worse than Donald Trump, they elected Trump by not giving the Democrats the candidate they voted for. While this might come off as comedic to conservatives, the scary message is that Bernie easily could've been our president.

It should be no surprise to anyone Bernie Sanders is popular. A candidate that'll tell you he's going to pay for your student loans and all your problems are because of the 1%; it's a sexy idea. It's hard to vote against Santa Clause. Winston Churchill, whose approval rating bounced around 83%, lost his re-election after World War 2 because his opponents were the labor party which promised entitlements ([src](http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/worldwars/wwtwo/election_01.shtml)). Our worst president I would argue, was FDR who is also the only president to have been elected for four terms in the United States. FDR prolonged the great depression with big government and entitlement programs which continue to plague us today. Two thirds of our national budget go to Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid thanks to FDR ([src](https://www.nationalpriorities.org/budget-basics/federal-budget-101/spending/)).

The point I'm trying to make is that people vote for the wrong things all the time. Britain voted to get rid of Churchill, Americans elected to keep Franklin Roosevelt, and Bernie easily could've been our president today. Plato hated democracy ([src](https://www.enotes.com/homework-help/why-did-plato-haes-democracy-3911)), partly because a democratic process killed Socrates, but also because an uninformed voting base it very bad. Most people aren't equipped for making decisions about economics, education, or business, and tapping into the emotions of the public is a good way to win an election.

I was talking about high taxes, then it came to entitlements, then it came to being an informed voter. I want to end with this: whether or not you believe high taxes are good or bad, whether you believe government programs actual help the communities they claim to be helping or not, we should be able to agree the appeal to a scapegoat for all your problems is bad. It's a very clever, strategic, and nefarious thing politicians regularly espouse. If you don't believe me, then look no further than "white privilege" for example. The invisible glass ceiling preventing you from being as rich and successful as you want to be. Vote for me and I'll tear down the racist sexist patriarchy which was built for and by white men, is the promise. It's 100% an appeal to emotion, and believing in this arbitrary shadowy nameless faceless entity which is responsible for keeping you down is a voluntary alignment with a prophecy of failure. Starting today, I want everyone reading my blog to start taking responsibility for things in their life. Even if you don't think something might have been in your control, take responsibility for it anyway and see how your life changes.

Vi ses.
